# Elo Predictor
Machine learning project aiming to predict player Elo ratings given a chess game. Group project with [yungene](https://github.com/yungene) and [yamkovoa](https://github.com/AntonYamkovoy) for a module on Machine Learning @ TCD.

## Project Structure
A description of the contents of each folder in this project.
### Data
- Data available in `data/` downloaded from the [FICS chess database](https://www.ficsgames.org/download.html).
- Cleaned data stored as *.clean.pgn* contains only standard chess games with at least 4 moves.
- Some stored extracted features present in `data/x/` and `data/y/`.

### Images
- Some plots describing the data and model performance.

### Notebooks
- Jupyter notebooks used to experiment on data / with various models and feature extraction techniques.

### Reports
- A collection of reports on model performance as generated by `src/testbench.py`.
- Each report is in `.json` format and contains MSE and R2 scores for both training dataset and test dataset for each model.

### Models
- The models used are available in `src/` in their own files.
- Each model is part of a pipeline containing feature extraction and scaling if necessary, forming an end-to-end function that can be tested in a standardised way.

### Feature Extraction
- `src/features.py` contains functions that clean the data as well as extracting the various features discussed in the report.
- `src/chess_utils` contains many helper functions implementing algorithms that extract information specific to chess that can be used as features.

### Testing
- `src/testbench.py` contains a function that evaluates the performance of a given pipeline on a given amount of train and test data.
- It then generates a report which is stored in `reports/`.
